---
layout: post
title:  "Science Writing"
date:   2017-07-15 16:38:14 -0700
categories: Science
---

# What is this?

This is a collection of a few short papers or articles that I completed quite a while ago.
It encompasses work ranging from anthropology to an article summarizing some of the
then-current scientific literature on cosmic microwave background weak lensing.
Some of these articles were completed as part of my curriculum at Cornell.
Some are projects that I completed in my free time. Hopefully, some of them are
interesting!

# Links to the work

* <a href="/file_content/final.pdf">Cosmic Microwave Background Weak Lensing Literature Review</a>

> In this paper, I summarize and discuss the results of Madhavacheril, et al., who use new data from the
Atacama Cosmology Telescope Polarimeter (ACTPol) in conjunction with the positions of constant mass (CMASS)
galaxies chosen from the SDSS-III/BOSS survey to detect the presence of dark matter halos on a smaller scale
(clusters and massive galaxies) than ever before with a signal significance of 3.2σ [1]. In addition to
concisely summarizing their processes and findings, I provide some physics and technical background and
explain the significance of their work and possible future work in the context of modern cosmological theory.

* <a href="/file_content/ET_phone_home.pdf">The Search foe Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI)</a>

> For about the past century, humans have been broadcasting low-power radio
messages into space. An extraterrestrial intelligence could seemingly detect our internal communications if
they had a detector with the required sensitivity. Maybe this extraterrestrial civilization wouldn’t even know
how to interpret these broadcasts. Similarly, perhaps we can receive their messages. As it turns out, our
ability to detect the existence of an extraterrestrial civilization may very well be correlated with our
ability to communicate with them. Different media may make ideal modes of communication across interstellar
space, but regardless of which is superior, it will still be limited by the speed of light. Sending physical
objects into space that can serve as messages (e.g. Voyager and Pioneer) is even more greatly limited by
Special Relativity, but probes offer other advantages. Our ability to detect and send up data is only half of
the equation. Astronomers must also be able to analyze and interpret data to differentiate noise originating
from space (pulsars, quasars, etc.) from an obviously artificial message. Scientists must also be able to use
and understand a language based on a shared understanding of science and mathematics in order for
communication to become a reality.

* <a href="/file_content/extinct_humans.pdf">Critical Review of an Anthropology Text</a>

A "book report" on Clive Finlayson's [_The Humans Who Went Extinct_](https://www.amazon.com/Humans-Who-Went-Extinct-Neanderthals/dp/0199239193)
and how it fits in with contemporary thought on Neanderthal extinction.

* <a href="/file_content/seattle_roadways.pdf">Seattle Traffic</a>

>
This is a "fun", short project that uses data available publicly from data.seattle.gov. I study changes in
traffic flows on 270 arterial roadways located within and outside of the downtown area from the years 2007
to 2009. The primary purpose of this project is to figure out some basic in- formation that’s present in the
data set while also becoming more familiar with R. I study the overall distribution of traffic counts,
determine large trends in traffic flow, compare the downtown and out-of-town traffic flow, and perform a
street level analysis.
